2025 GC Election Page (#3002)
open-telemetry/community: elections/2025/governance-committee-election.md

# OpenTelemetry 2025 Governance Committee election

This document lays out the 2025 election process per the OpenTelemetry governance committee [charter document](../../governance-charter.md#eligibility-for-candidacy) requirements.

This election should fill five seats.

Election schedule:

* 17 October 2025 - final deadline to submit nominations
* 20 October 2025 - official nominees list published
* 27 October 2025 to 29 October 2025 - voting takes place
* 31 October 2025 - results announced

We highly encourage participation in this election cycle to ensure that the community is well-represented by the Governance Committee.

# TL;DR

> * If you've been nominated or are willing to nominate yourself: check the [charter document](../../governance-charter.md) and confirm you are ready for the commitment. Make sure to provide all necessary information before 11 October 2025 23:59 UTC

Author: Copy / paste error from last year :)

* If you are an active community member: confirm that you are on the voters list or register yourself before 24 October 2025 23:59 UTC.
* Vote between 27 October 2025 00:00 UTC and 29 October 2025 23:59 UTC via the [voting link](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/blob/main/elections/2025/governance-committee-election.md)
* Keep being awesome and contributing to the project!

> # Vacancies

Author: This is actually consistent with how we've done this in past years, though I admit that it is an odd way of presenting this. I'm going to bold the ones that expire this year.

> * Vote between 27 October 2025 00:00 UTC and 29 October 2025 23:59 UTC via the [voting link](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/blob/main/elections/2025/governance-committee-election.md)

Author: Nice catch!

```suggestion
* Vote between 27 October 2025 00:00 UTC and end of day 29 October 2025 23:59 via the [voting link](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/blob/main/elections/2025/governance-committee-election.md)
```

Current governance committee members (alphabetical order):

- [Alolita Sharma](https://github.com/alolita), Apple, until October 2026
- [Austin Parker](https://github.com/austinlparker), Honeycomb, until October 2025

> - [Daniel Gomez Blanco](https://github.com/danielgblanco), New Relic, until October 2025

Author: ```suggestion
- **[Daniel Gomez Blanco](https://github.com/danielgblanco), New Relic, until October 2025**
```

> - [Juraci Paixão Kröhling](https://github.com/jpkrohling), Grafana Labs, until October 2025

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Juraci Paixão Kröhling](https://github.com/jpkrohling), OllyGarden, until October 2025
```

- [Morgan McLean](https://github.com/mtwo), Splunk, until October 2026
- [Pablo Baeyens Fernandez](https://github.com/mx-psi), Datadog, until October 2026

> - [Severin Neumann](https://github.com/svrnm), Causely, until October 2025

Author: ```suggestion
- **[Severin Neumann](https://github.com/svrnm), Causely, until October 2025**
```

> - [Severin Neumann](https://github.com/svrnm), Cisco, until October 2025

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Severin Neumann](https://github.com/svrnm), Causely, until October 2025
```

> - [Ted Young](https://github.com/tedsuo), Grafana Labs, until October 2025

Author: ```suggestion
- **[Ted Young](https://github.com/tedsuo), Grafana Labs, until October 2025**
```

- [Trask Stalnaker](https://github.com/trask), Microsoft, until October 2026

> Five people must be elected in this election, each with two-year terms. Note that four current Governance Committee members end terms as part of this election cycle, though they are welcome to run again for one of the four vacancies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Five people must be elected in this election, each with two-year terms. Note that five current Governance Committee members end terms as part of this election cycle, though they are welcome to run again for one of the five vacancies.
```

# Voting process

> Anyone can track the 2025 election process via [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/issues/3001). This year's election committee consists of governance committee members Morgan McLean, Trask Stalnaker, and Pablo Bayens Fernandez. None of whom are up for reelection this year.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Anyone can track the 2025 election process via [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/issues/3001). This year's election committee consists of governance committee members Morgan McLean, Trask Stalnaker, and Pablo Baeyens Fernandez. None of whom are up for reelection this year.
```

* Full name
* GitHub alias
* Company affiliation (if applicable)
* Short bio or reasoning to join the Governance Committee (no more than a short paragraph)
* _Optional_: photo/picture of a nominee

The election committee will not merge the Pull Request until the candidate has confirmed their desire to be nominated (if not self-nominating) and has been ratified via PR comments.

Nominees should also send their email address to [cncf-opentelemetry-governance@lists.cncf.io](mailto:cncf-opentelemetry-governance@lists.cncf.io) – it will be kept private and used only for candidate communications as the election process proceeds.

The Governance Committee or appointed people will contact every nominee directly to ensure the commitment and desire to be nominated.

# Voter Eligibility

> All [members of standing](../../governance-charter.md#members-of-standing) will automatically be eligible to vote. To confirm your eligibility status, see the [election announcements issue](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/issues/3001). If your code contributions do not meet eligibility requirements, but you believe your non-code contributions should make you eligible to vote, you can request an exemption by submitting an exemption [request form](https://forms.gle/LBvyRpNwZvqcJxUbA).

Author: ```suggestion
All [members of standing](../../governance-charter.md#members-of-standing) will automatically be eligible to vote. To confirm your eligibility status, see the [election announcements issue](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/issues/3001). If your code contributions do not meet eligibility requirements, but you believe your non-code contributions should make you eligible to vote, you can request an exemption by submitting an exemption [request form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeSA09xDIv0uyb6vrP8xBbLjm8NsgihrG8GHxacbigF17sNDw/viewform?usp=dialog).
```

One of two options will be available in the form to prove eligibility:

* GitHub handle
* List either:
  * Your contributions to OpenTelemetry that make you eligible to vote, or
  * Your non-code contributions per the [Members of Standing section of the charter](../../governance-charter.md#members-of-standing): particularly, your relationship to a well-known project that's taken a hard dependency on OpenTelemetry, or your involvement with a well-known organization's adoption of OpenTelemetry as an end-user.

All exemption forms are private. Only the current governance and election committee members will have access to this information. The governance committee will discard the lists one month after the election.

# Vote

> Everyone with voting rights may log into [Helios Voting](https://vote.heliosvoting.org/helios/elections/f94a7c58-990b-11f0-a16d-5270fb641b4c) using their GitHub account. Voting will be approval voting, where each voter may select up to four candidates. The four candidates with the most votes win the election.

Reviewer 3: The wording here sounds a bit weird to me (though I guess it is what has been used in past years). It would sound more natural to me like so
```suggestion
Everyone with voting rights may log into [Helios Voting](https://vote.heliosvoting.org/helios/elections/f94a7c58-990b-11f0-a16d-5270fb641b4c) using their GitHub account. Voting happen through approval voting, where each voter may select up to four candidates. The four candidates with the most votes win the election.
```

The election committee will accept late registrations to vote and requests to re-send the voting link via email to [cncf-opentelemetry-governance@lists.cncf.io](mailto:cncf-opentelemetry-governance@lists.cncf.io). We encourage pre-registration to minimize the effort required to run this election.

Per Helios Voting, voting is entirely private: nobody will know any individual's vote.

# Results

> Voting will close on 29 October 2025 at 23:59 UTC. Nominees will be stack ranked. If a nominee becomes ineligible (for instance, if more than three topmost nominees work for the same company), the election committee will skip those nominees and pick the nominee with the next-highest score. The exact scores for each candidate will be public.

Reviewer 3: Have we considered closing voting on "29 October 2025, End of Day, [Anywhere On Earth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anywhere_on_Earth) (30 October 2025 at UTC 11:59)"?

Not sure if it matters much given that we have multiple days but it's a bit easier to understand maybe (you have to vote before EoD October 29th no matter where you live)

Author: I like this idea! I will update Helios and this text but will leave this comment open. Reviewers, please let me know if you object!

Author: ```suggestion
Voting will close at the end of the day on 29 October 2025 (technically, 23:59 in the International Date Line West time zone / 30 October 2025 noon UTC). Nominees will be stack ranked. If a nominee becomes ineligible (for instance, if more than three topmost nominees work for the same company), the election committee will skip those nominees and pick the nominee with the next-highest score. The exact scores for each candidate will be public.
```
